Hello and welcome back to the course R
programming. We had a very exciting
section just now on matrices and we
talked about basketball and now we've got
the homework exercise for the section
where we will continue talking about
basketball. We will investigate free throws.
Alright, so let's have a look. What is a
free throw to start off with?
Well a free throw is a bit different to
a field goal or a field goal attempt in
basketball. A free-throw, you can see an
example here is when there's like a
foul that happened during the play
then that to team that was the victim
gets an opportunity to throw in a free
throw or a couple of them and basically
every free-throw in basketball is worth one
point and the player has to stand where
basically this player is standing in
this example. That's pretty much
everything we need to know. So they're
kind of the additional types of goals
that teams can score. They're not just
field goals what that happened during
the play, these are kind of like
penalties and soccer something like that.
Ok so now let's move on to the challenge,
so you have been supplied data for two
more additional in game statistics. Free
throws and free throw attempts, you need
to create three plots that portray the
following insights. Free-throw attempts
per game so how many free throws have
the players been getting per each game
we've been playing. Accuracy of free
throws, so that is similar to the field
goal accuracy that we've been
calculating and player playing style 2
verses three-point preference excluding
free throws.
So remember we have already spoken about
the playing style. We calculate the ratio
of points, two field goals but then we
said that it wasn't exactly the correct
calculation because the point's still
included free throws.
Well now we have an opportunity to
exclude free throws and that's exactly
what is being asked of us in this third
part of the challenge and the star here
or the asterisk says that each
free-throws worth one point so that's
important because then you don't need to
multiply by anything so basically a
successful free-throw is a point
that needs to be subtracted and the
data has been supplied in the form
of vectors, you will have to create the
two matrices before you proceed with the
analysis. So previously we're supplied
code that created the matrices for us.
This time we're only gonna supply the vectors
that will have to create the matrices
and that's good because that will give
us an opportunity to practice binding
vectors in two matrices.
Ok so that's the challenge, let's go have
a look at where to get the data set. The
data set is as usual at superdatascience.com/rcourse,
so if you scroll
down here to section 4 matrices, you'll
see the homework data set that's the one
we need also homework challenge is the
document what that we just walked
through. So now I'm going to go to R
studio and this is the file once you
unzip it and open it in R
studio, this is what it looks like.
So once again here it says that you have
been supplied the vectors you'll need to
create the matrices, some copyright and
some other information and then finally
we've got to the vector. So we've got the
seasons vectors, vector the players
vector and then we get the free throws
vectors and as you can see here there is
no matrix, no code for the matrix. You
need to populate this code on your own
so basically you need to find a way to
turn these vectors into a matrix and you
probably going to need a function
something like a bind function to bind
these vectors into rows that's a little
hint and also for the free-throw
attempts. So once you have those two
matrices then just quickly check them
and then proceeded to calculating the
desires statistics that we just talked
about. So there we go, if you're
comfortable with this challenge then
please proceed with it. It's pretty
straightforward very similar to what
we've already done and at the same time
you will find some very valuable and
interesting insight.
However, as always I would like to give
you a hint if you would like some
additional information on how to proceed
then stick around and now I'm going to
bring up the hints.
Ok so hint number one, very simple hint.
The matrix calculation for part three
is points minus free throws divided by field goals.
So it's quite straightforward and what's
going on here, we're taking previously
we just had points divided by field goals and that
wasn't exactly correct but now we're
just going to take points and subtract
free throws because we know that
free-throws attempts are the attempts that
they made. Free throws are the successful
free throws and every free throw is
equal to one point. So if we subtract the
number of points generated by free
throws,
this is this matrix over here. We
subtract it from the actual point matrix
and then what we have left will be the
points generated only by field goals
right? So only by two-point shots and
three point shots and then if we divide
that by the number of field goals and
this matrix excuse us the number of
successful field goals so if we divide
the point generated by field goals by
the number of field goals then we'll get
the average points that the player got
for their field goals in that year, right?
And then we'll be able to observe the
trends, so this is the matrix operation
that you need for part three of the
challenge.
There we go that's there's a bit of
guidance for this challenge and now if
you're ready to proceed with challenge
please go ahead and otherwise stick
around and I'm going to show you where
to get the fill in the blanks exercise
as always so we're moving on to hint number
two which is our fill in the blanks.
Okay so we need to go to once again
superdatascience.com/rcourse
and here
section 4, you'll see fill-in-the-blanks
exercise. So if you open that up,
unzip it, and open it in R studio. It
looks like this, so here I've prepared
some code which you can populate using
what you've learned in this section and
so this part creates the matrix. So this
bit is basically what needs to actually
go in here into where you're required to
create the matrix. I'll just put in a separate
file, so basically this is creating the
matrix and it's got all the comments here
then you check the matrix and you create
other matrix for the free-throw attempts
and then you check the matrix and then
you need to recreate your plotting
function because we'll be using that,
then you can just visualize the matrices
just quickly and then we've got the part
1, part 2, part 3 and I've actually put in
a lot of comments this
time because the insides are that
interesting and once you get to this
stage make sure to read through the
comments or just visit the solution for
this section, it will be at the end of the
course and there we'll walk through the
insights together there are quite
fascinating as always.
So that's all for this challenge, I wish
you best of luck and you are fully
equipped with everything you need to
know to complete this challenge and I look
forward to seeing you next time.
Until then, happy coding.